README.md, before:

# Fastfetch

[![GitHub Workflow Status (with event)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/ci.yml)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/actions)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/blob/dev/LICENSE)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch?logo=c&label=)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/blob/dev/CMakeLists.txt#L5)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/commits)  
[![homebrew downloads](https://img.shields.io/homebrew/installs/dm/fastfetch?logo=homebrew)](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/fastfetch#default)
[![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/total?logo=github)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases)  
[![GitHub release (with filter)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch?logo=github)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases)
[![latest packaged version(s)](https://repology.org/badge/latest-versions/fastfetch.svg)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)
[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/fastfetch.svg)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)

Fastfetch is a [neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch)-like tool for fetching system information and displaying them in a pretty way. It is written mainly in C, with performance and customizability in mind. Currently, Linux, Android, FreeBSD, MacOS and Windows 7+ are supported.

<img src="screenshots/example1.png" width="49%" align="left" />
<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/24/Transparent_Square_Tiles_Texture.png" width="49%" height="16px" align="left" />
<img src="screenshots/example4.png" width="49%" align="left" />
<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/24/Transparent_Square_Tiles_Texture.png" width="49%" height="16px" align="left" />
<img src="screenshots/example2.png" width="48%" align="top" />
<img src="screenshots/example3.png" width="48%" align="top" />
<img src="screenshots/example5.png" height="15%" align="top" />

There are [screenshots on different platforms](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki)

## Installation

### Linux

* Debian / Ubuntu: Download `fastfetch-<version>-Linux.deb` from [Github release page](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases/latest) and `dpkg -i fastfetch-<version>-Linux.deb`
* Arch Linux: `sudo pacman -S fastfetch`
* Fedora: `sudo dnf install fastfetch`
* Gentoo: `sudo emerge --ask app-misc/fastfetch`
* NixOS: `sudo nix-shell -p fastfetch`
* openSUSE: `sudo zypper install fastfetch`

Replace sudo with doas depending on what you use.

[See also if fastfetch has been packaged for your favorite Linux distro](#Packaging)

### macOS

`brew install fastfetch`

### Windows

`scoop install fastfetch`

You may also download it directly from [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases/latest) and extract the archive.

### FreeBSD

`pkg install fastfetch`

### Android (Termux)

`pkg install fastfetch`

## Build from source

See Wiki: https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Building

## Usage

* Run it with default configuration: `fastfetch`
* Run it with [all supported modules](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Support+Status#available-modules) and find what you interest: `fastfetch -c all.jsonc`
* Find all data that fastfetch detects: `fastfetch -s <module> --format json`
* Display help messages: `fastfetch --help`
* Generate config file based on command line arguments: `fastfetch --arg1 --arg2 --gen-config`

## Customization

Fastfetch uses the JSONC (or JSON with comments) for configuration. [See Wiki for detail](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Configuration). There are some premade config files in [`presets`](presets), including the ones used for the screenshots above. You can load them using `-c <filename>`. They may also serve as a good example for format arguments.

Logos can be heavily customized too; see the [logo documentation](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Logo-options) for more information.


## Packaging

### Repositories

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/fastfetch.svg?header=)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)

### Manual

* DEB / RPM package: `cmake --build . --target package`
* Install directly: `cmake --install . --prefix /usr/local`

## FAQ

Q: Why do you need a very performant version of neofetch?
> I like putting neofetch in my ~/.bashrc to have a system overview whenever I use the terminal, but the slow speed annoyed me, so I created this. Also neofetch didn't output everything correctly (e.g Font is displayed as "[Plasma], Noto Sans, 10 [GTK2/3]") and writing my own tool gave me the possibility to fine tune it to run perfectly on at least my configuration.

Q: It does not display [*] correctly for me, what can I do?
> This is most likely because your system is not implemented (yet). At the moment I am focusing more on making the core app better, than adding more configurations. Feel free to open a pull request if you want to add support for your configuration

## Star History

Give it a star to support us!

<a href="https://star-history.com/#fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&Date">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date&theme=dark" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date" />
    <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date" />
  </picture>
</a>

Commit message:

Doc: mark Cygwin as a supported platform
Signed-off-by: Ookiineko <chiisaineko@protonmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Fastfetch

[![GitHub Workflow Status (with event)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/ci.yml)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/actions)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/blob/dev/LICENSE)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch?logo=c&label=)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/blob/dev/CMakeLists.txt#L5)
[![GitHub commit activity (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/commits)  
[![homebrew downloads](https://img.shields.io/homebrew/installs/dm/fastfetch?logo=homebrew)](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/fastfetch#default)
[![GitHub all releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/total?logo=github)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases)  
[![GitHub release (with filter)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch?logo=github)](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases)
[![latest packaged version(s)](https://repology.org/badge/latest-versions/fastfetch.svg)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)
[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/tiny-repos/fastfetch.svg)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)

Fastfetch is a [neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch)-like tool for fetching system information and displaying them in a pretty way. It is written mainly in C, with performance and customizability in mind. Currently, Linux, Android, FreeBSD, MacOS, Windows 7+, and Cygwin are supported.

<img src="screenshots/example1.png" width="49%" align="left" />
<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/24/Transparent_Square_Tiles_Texture.png" width="49%" height="16px" align="left" />
<img src="screenshots/example4.png" width="49%" align="left" />
<img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/24/Transparent_Square_Tiles_Texture.png" width="49%" height="16px" align="left" />
<img src="screenshots/example2.png" width="48%" align="top" />
<img src="screenshots/example3.png" width="48%" align="top" />
<img src="screenshots/example5.png" height="15%" align="top" />

There are [screenshots on different platforms](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki)

## Installation

### Linux

* Debian / Ubuntu: Download `fastfetch-<version>-Linux.deb` from [Github release page](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases/latest) and `dpkg -i fastfetch-<version>-Linux.deb`
* Arch Linux: `sudo pacman -S fastfetch`
* Fedora: `sudo dnf install fastfetch`
* Gentoo: `sudo emerge --ask app-misc/fastfetch`
* NixOS: `sudo nix-shell -p fastfetch`
* openSUSE: `sudo zypper install fastfetch`

Replace sudo with doas depending on what you use.

[See also if fastfetch has been packaged for your favorite Linux distro](#Packaging)

### macOS

`brew install fastfetch`

### Windows

`scoop install fastfetch`

You may also download it directly from [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/releases/latest) and extract the archive.

### Cygwin

See [Build from source](#build-from-source).

### FreeBSD

`pkg install fastfetch`

### Android (Termux)

`pkg install fastfetch`

## Build from source

See Wiki: https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Building

## Usage

* Run it with default configuration: `fastfetch`
* Run it with [all supported modules](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Support+Status#available-modules) and find what you interest: `fastfetch -c all.jsonc`
* Find all data that fastfetch detects: `fastfetch -s <module> --format json`
* Display help messages: `fastfetch --help`
* Generate config file based on command line arguments: `fastfetch --arg1 --arg2 --gen-config`

## Customization

Fastfetch uses the JSONC (or JSON with comments) for configuration. [See Wiki for detail](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Configuration). There are some premade config files in [`presets`](presets), including the ones used for the screenshots above. You can load them using `-c <filename>`. They may also serve as a good example for format arguments.

Logos can be heavily customized too; see the [logo documentation](https://github.com/fastfetch-cli/fastfetch/wiki/Logo-options) for more information.


## Packaging

### Repositories

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/fastfetch.svg?header=)](https://repology.org/project/fastfetch/versions)

### Manual

* DEB / RPM package: `cmake --build . --target package`
* Install directly: `cmake --install . --prefix /usr/local`

## FAQ

Q: Why do you need a very performant version of neofetch?
> I like putting neofetch in my ~/.bashrc to have a system overview whenever I use the terminal, but the slow speed annoyed me, so I created this. Also neofetch didn't output everything correctly (e.g Font is displayed as "[Plasma], Noto Sans, 10 [GTK2/3]") and writing my own tool gave me the possibility to fine tune it to run perfectly on at least my configuration.

Q: It does not display [*] correctly for me, what can I do?
> This is most likely because your system is not implemented (yet). At the moment I am focusing more on making the core app better, than adding more configurations. Feel free to open a pull request if you want to add support for your configuration

## Star History

Give it a star to support us!

<a href="https://star-history.com/#fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&Date">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date&theme=dark" />
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date" />
    <img alt="Star History Chart" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=fastfetch-cli/fastfetch&type=Date" />
  </picture>
</a>
